Basic Level (For Beginners)
What is Python? List its key features. (4 marks)
How do you declare variables in Python? Provide examples. (4 marks)
What is the difference between list, tuple, and set in Python? (4 marks)
Write a Python program to find the factorial of a number. (8 marks)
Explain the use of the print() and input() functions with examples. (4 marks)
Intermediate Level
What are Python’s data types? Explain any four with examples. (8 marks)
Write a Python program to check whether a given number is a palindrome. (10 marks)
Explain the concept of list comprehension in Python with an example. (8 marks)
What is a lambda function? Write a program to demonstrate its use. (8 marks)
How does Python handle exceptions? Explain with an example. (8 marks)
Advanced Level
What is the difference between deepcopy and shallow copy in Python? Explain with code. (10 marks)
Write a Python program to implement a stack using classes. (10 marks)
Explain Python decorators with a code example. (10 marks)
What are Python modules and packages? How are they different? (8 marks)
How can multithreading be achieved in Python? Write a program to demonstrate it. (10 marks)
Project-Based Questions
Explain how you would create a simple calculator using Python. (8 marks)
Write a Python program to scrape data from a website and save it to a file. (10 marks)
How can you create a GUI application in Python? Write a program using Tkinter. (10 marks)
What is the purpose of the os and sys modules in Python? Provide examples. (8 marks)
Demonstrate the use of Python for data visualization using matplotlib or seaborn. (10 marks)
Algorithm-Based Questions
Write a Python program to implement Bubble Sort. (10 marks)
Write a Python program to find the longest common subsequence of two strings. (10 marks)
How can you implement the Fibonacci sequence using recursion? Write the code. (8 marks)
Write a program to count the frequency of each word in a text file. (10 marks)
Explain and demonstrate the use of Python for solving the Tower of Hanoi problem. (10 marks)
Conceptual & Theory-Based Questions
**What is Python’s Global Interpret
